Overview: 
The installation is pretty easy. There is no build-time dependency on Gallery3 since to us it is a remote RESTful API. If that one changes, you are screwed, but this should not happen, as it is official and stable, other programs rely on it as well.

Requirements: 
* KDE>=4.7
* QJson
* Qt4
(The package names depend on the distribution you use.)

Build requirements:
* KDE development
* QJson development
* Qt4 development
* cmake
* gcc-c++
(The package names depend on the distribution you use.)

Installation from a binary package: 
If you have a precompiled package matching your system (architecture and distribution) installation is handled by the standard tool that comes with the distribution.
kio-gallery3 also comes in a source rpm package. You can use the tools provided with your distribution to build a binary packages from that in a few steps. This especially makes sense if there is no read-to-use package for your distribution or version or the requirements for the installation of such package are not matched on your system. note hoever, that you require a complete build environment for this. 

Build and install an rpm package:
This packages comes bundled with a spec file (kio-gallery3.spec). This file contains instructions for locally building an rpm package using an existing development and packaging environment. The spec file currently works only for openSUSE based distributions. 

Build and install from source: 
# in the unpacked sources directory:
mkdir build
cd build
cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=`kde4-config --prefix` ..
make
sudo make install
[sudo make uninstall]

That's it.
You might want to add shortcuts for easier access at a few places, for example dolphins 'places' sidebar, once you have successfully connected to your gallery.  Prefer the 'gallery3s' protocol in favour of 'gallery3' whenever possible to take advantage of its encryption of sensitive information. 

Usage prerequisites: 
Obviously you do need a remote Gallery3 system you have access to.
That server must have the 'REST' module enabled. This module provides the RESTful API used by this slave implementation. Please refer to the gallery3 documentation about this.
It is not required to grant guest access to the API, in fact the makers of Gallery3 advise against that. kio-gallery3 will try authenticated access when required. This is done by prompting the user for authentication credentials and an explicit login to the Gallery3 API. 
Read-only ("show-only") access to a Gallery3 certainly does not required an authenticated session, so for certain purposes you might want to enable the guest access to the API.
