README file for the kio-gallery3 package

Overview:
kio-gallery3 implements a kio-slave, a protocol for KDEs I/O system. It
makes the content of a remote gallery3 system available inside the local
file management. That means you can access all items contained in the 
gallery entries using standard file dialogs like 'File open' or 'Save File', 
you even can use a file browser and add or access existing entries. In general
you can use the slave wherever you can use an URL inside KDE to get access to
the gallery3 content: 'places' in Dolphin and File dialogs, as cli argument
upon applciation startup, in desktop shortcuts, ...

License: LGPL
Author: Christian Reiner, Hamburg, Germany
Email: kio-gallery3@christian-reiner.info
Web: -/-

Warranty: 
This software comes with no warranties. Use it at own risk.
It was developed and tested under KDE-4.7 running on a GNU/Linux (openSUSE) on
a x86_64 platform. I hope it works under other platforms and environments.

Current state:
This is an early and definitely buggy release.
Make sure you have an up-to-date backup of your gallery (database and files) and
that this backup can be restored successfully. Better even test with a separat
installation of Gallery3.

Future roadmap: 
- faster access for subsequently started slaves by using shared memory
- complete support of gallery3s API
- additional actions beside classical file management
- usage of existing remote thumbnails in local cache
- integration into third party applications
- as typical in a FOSS project future development depends on interest and contributions

Usage:
Just enter "gallery3://<my.server.domain>/<gallery-folder>" in the location bar of
for example dolphin or a "File open" dialog. This is the url you use to access
your gallery3 system with a browser, except that the protocol (http or https) is
replaced with gallery3 or gallery3s. 
Prefer gallery3s in favour of gallery3 whenever possible (if you have working https
access to your gallery) for using ssl encryption to access the gallery. This way
sensitive information like your username, password and remote access key are
protected by encryption whilst being sent over the internet. 
